Log ingestion API (#88181)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/rest-api/logs.asciidoc

The default mappings for the `logs-*-*` data streams are designed to minimize mapping conflicts.

[discrete]
[[logs-api-path-params]]
=== {api-path-parms-title}

`data_stream.dataset`::
  (Optional, string)
  Defaults to `generic`.
  Describes the ingested data and its structure.
  It is highly recommended to provide a value for this so that you can add structure to your logs after the fact.
  Example: `nginx.access`.

`data_stream.namespace`::
  (Optional, string)
  Defaults to `generic`.
  A user-configurable arbitrary grouping, such as an environment (dev, prod, or qa), a team, or a strategic business unit.

The dataset and namespace parameters determine the <<data-streams, data stream>> in which the events will be indexed `logs-<dataset>-<namespace>`. This can be overridden on a per-event basis.

[discrete]
[[logs-api-query-params]]
=== {api-query-parms-title}

Any provided query parameter will be added to each log line.
For example, `/_logs/myapp?service.name=myapp` will add `"data_stream.dataset": "myapp"` and `"service.name": "myapp"` to all logs.

> 

Author: [discrete]

[role="xpack"]
[[logs-api]]
== Log ingestion API

experimental::[]

Provides a simple JSON API to ingest log events into {es}.

[discrete]
[[logs-api-request]]
=== {api-request-title}

`POST /_logs`

`POST /_logs/<dataset>`

`POST /_logs/<dataset>/<namespace>`

[discrete]
[[logs-api-prereqs]]
=== {api-prereq-title}
* If the {es} {security-features} are enabled, you must have the `create`
<<privileges-list-indices,index privileges>> for the target data stream.

> * As the target stream depends on routing rules and the data provided in the log events,

Reviewer: I assume if a user selects directly a `dataset`, only has permissions there and no routing happens, things would just work. The broader permissions are only needed for routing.

it's recommended to grant permissions for `logs-*-*`.

> * Automatic data stream creation requires a matching index template with data

Reviewer: As the `logs-*-*` template already exist, I assume a matching template always exists either the global one or one created by users?

The log events are specified in the request body using a newline delimited JSON (NDJSON) structure.

The events are indexed into the `logs-<dataset>-<namespace>` <<data-streams, data stream>>,
according to the dataset and namespace parameters, which can be provided globally or on a per-event basis.

The endpoint is designed in a way that logs are never dropped, as long as the cluster has enough capacity.

If an error happens during ingestion,
the logs are sent to the `logs-dlq-<namespace>` data stream that acts as a dead letter queue for failed events.
However, log ingestion should rarely fail as the mappings in the built-in index template for the `logs-*-*` data streams are designed to minimize mapping conflicts.

A <<logs-api-request-body, couple of fields>> from the {ecs-ref}[Elastic Common Schema (ECS)] are indexed by default that are commonly used to search or filter logs.
All other fields are not indexed by default.
But you can still add any top-level fields and use them in searches and aggregations as the default index template for logs
<<dynamic-mapping-runtime-fields, maps dynamic fields as runtime fields>>.

> If there are custom fields that you frequently use in searches or aggregations, you might want to leverage the speed benefits of indexing the field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For custom fields that are frequently used in searches or aggregations, you might want to leverage the speed benefits of indexing the field.
```

> This comes at the expense of a larger index size more processing at ingest time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This comes at the expense of a larger index size and more processing at ingest time.
```

> To index a custom field, <<create-index-template, create an index template>> for your dataset `logs-<dataset>-*` based on the built-in index template for `logs-*-*` and add your custom field to the mappings.

Reviewer: Ideally that is a part we would have an API for, user should not have to think about templates etc. Same for the rollover below.

> If wanted, you can <<manually-roll-over-a-data-stream, roll over the data stream>> to immediately apply the setting to the data stream’s write index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To immediately apply the setting, <<manually-roll-over-a-data-stream, roll over the data stream>>
```

This affects any new data added to the stream after the rollover.
However, it does not affect the data stream’s existing backing indices or existing data.

All fields, aside from the `@timestamp` field, are configured to <<ignore-malformed, ignore malformed>> values.
This means that if a log event contains a field whose type is incompatible with the type of the field that exists in the mapping,

> {es} will ignore the field instead of rejecting the whole document.

Reviewer: Will the field still be available in `_source`?

Author: Yes

For example, when a string is provided for a field that is mapped to integer.
Note that this currently doesn't apply for object/scalar mismatches, such as `"foo": "bar"` vs `"foo.bar": "baz"`.

[discrete]
[[logs-api-path-params]]
=== {api-path-parms-title}

{ecs-ref}/ecs-data_stream.html#field-data-stream-dataset[`data_stream.dataset`]::
  (Optional, string)
  Defaults to `generic`.
  Describes the ingested data and its structure.
  It is highly recommended to provide a value for this so that you can add structure to your logs after the fact.
  Example: `nginx.access`.

{ecs-ref}/ecs-data_stream.html#field-data-stream-namespace[`data_stream.namespace`]::
  (Optional, string)
  Defaults to `default`.
  A user-configurable arbitrary grouping, such as an environment (dev, prod, or qa), a team, or a strategic business unit.

[discrete]
[[logs-api-query-params]]
=== {api-query-parms-title}

Any provided query parameter will be added to each log line.

> For example, `/_logs?service.name=myapp` will add `"service.name": "myapp"` to all logs.

Reviewer: For later: I have the suspicion we will need the query params to set some other flags then adding data. Even though it looks very convenient, I wonder if this is the expected way of adding data. As we follow bulk requests, it does not fit into the body but it would likely be a better place for it?

Author: > I have the suspicion we will need the query params to set some other flags then adding data.

What I had in mind is that these flags would be prefixed by an underscore.

[discrete]
[[logs-api-request-body]]
=== {api-request-body-title}
The request body contains a newline-delimited list of log events to ingest.
The individual events don't have any required fields and can contain arbitrary JSON content.
There is no required structure for the log events, and you can add any top-level fields.
However, it is recommended to follow the {ecs-ref}[Elastic Common Schema (ECS)] to structure your logs.

TIP: Use the {ecs-logging-ref}/intro.html[ECS logging libraries] to create ECS-compliant JSON logs.

Only the following fields, which are commonly used for searching, filtering, and correlating logs, are indexed by default:

> * {ecs-ref}/ecs-base.html#field-timestamp[`@timestamp`] +

Reviewer: The list is pretty long. Maybe we can get it even shorter?

Author: Shorter, because it takes up a lot of space in the docs or because you think some of the fields should not be indexed by default? If so, which ones and why?

* {ecs-ref}/ecs-process.html#field-process-thread-name[`process.thread.name`]
* {ecs-ref}/ecs-error.html#field-error-type[`error.type`]
* {ecs-ref}/ecs-error.html#field-error-message[`error.message`]
* {ecs-ref}/ecs-event.html#field-event-dataset[`event.dataset`]
* {ecs-ref}/ecs-cloud.html#field-cloud-provider[`cloud.provider`]
* {ecs-ref}/ecs-cloud.html#field-cloud-availability-zone[`cloud.availability_zone`]
* {ecs-ref}/ecs-cloud.html#field-cloud-region[`cloud.region`]
* {ecs-ref}/ecs-host.html#field-host-hostname[`host.hostname`]
* {ecs-ref}/ecs-host.html#field-host-name[`host.name`]
* {ecs-ref}/ecs-container.html#field-container-id[`container.id`]
* {ecs-ref}/ecs-container.html#field-container-name[`container.name`]
* {ecs-ref}/ecs-orchestrator.html#field-orchestrator-namespace[`orchestrator.namespace`]
* {ecs-ref}/ecs-orchestrator.html#field-orchestrator-cluster-id[`orchestrator.cluster.id`]
* {ecs-ref}/ecs-orchestrator.html#field-orchestrator-cluster-name[`orchestrator.cluster.name`]
* {ecs-ref}/ecs-orchestrator.html#field-orchestrator-resource-id[`orchestrator.resource.id`]
* {ecs-ref}/ecs-orchestrator.html#field-orchestrator-resource-name[`orchestrator.resource.name`]

> Dotted field names are expanded to objects so that they can be used interchangeably with nested objects. For example, the following documents are treated equally: `{"log.level": "INFO"}`, `{"log": { "level": "INFO"} }`.

Reviewer: Should we directly start to use subobject false to prevent conflicts?

Author: I think we should but there are some missing features. See: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/issues/88934

Author: Another reason for expanding dots is to be able to access the fields in a consistent way in ingest pipelines and scripts so that you don't need to have something like `_doc['log']['level']` and `_doc['log.level']`.

Reviewer: That argument can be taken both ways. I think the important bit is that it is consistent, either all flat or all expanded so that we don't have something like `_doc['foo']['hello.world']`

> `_metadata`::

Reviewer: Would be nice to show here an example event.

Author: There are some examples at the bottom of this page.

(Optional, object)
Marks this line as a metadata line.
Provides metadata that will be merged into subsequent events.
If a metadata event is provided as the first line, the metadata is added to all logs events.
If a metadata event is provided after the first line, the metadata is added to all subsequent log events until another metadata event is provided.
This way you can easily add global metadata and send logs from multiple datasets in a single request, providing dataset-specific metadata.

[discrete]
[[logs-api-response-body]]
==== {api-response-body-title}

The log API's response body is always empty.

Status

* 202 Accepted: The log events have been received and are processed in the background. They should be searchable after a short while.

> * 500 Internal Server Error: There was an error while processing the log events. Some logs may have been lost.

Reviewer: What is the expected client behaviour in this case? Resend all data?

    "failed": 0
  },
  "hits": {
    "total": {
      "value": 1,
      "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score": 1.0,
    "hits": [
      {
        "_index": ".ds-logs-foo-default-2016.05.23-000001",
        "_id": "FKgQT4IBWsM7OYMsIp0N",
        "_score": 1.0,
        "_source": {
          "@timestamp": 1463990734853,
          "message": "Hello",
          "custom": "value",
          "service": {
            "name": "myapp"
          },
          "data_stream": {
            "type": "logs",
            "dataset": "myapp",
            "namespace": "default"
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
----
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took": 5/"took": $body.took/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_index": ".*"/"_index": $body.hits.hits.0._index/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_id": ".*"/"_id": $body.hits.hits.0._id/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_source": \{\n/"_source": \{\n"error_trace": "true",\n/]
// The test system adds an error_trace:true parameter to all requests,
// including the logs API which interprets it as global metadata that's added to every event

'''

Ingests a single log into the `logs-myapp-default` data stream.

[source,console]
------------------------------------------------------------
POST _logs/myapp

> {"_metadata": {"service.name": "myapp"}} <1>

Reviewer: Here we go with the example :-)

{"@timestamp": "2016-05-23T08:05:34.853Z", "message": "Hello World"} <2>
------------------------------------------------------------

<1> Provides global metadata that applies to all log events in the request via a global metadata event.
<2> Specifies the timestamp as an ISO date string.

'''

> Ingests a two log events into the `logs-myapp-default` and `logs-my_other_app-default` data stream, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ingests two log events into the `logs-myapp-default` and `logs-my_other_app-default` data stream, respectively.
```

Provides metadata via local metadata events.

[source,console]
------------------------------------------------------------
POST _logs
{"_metadata": {"service.name": "myapp"}} <1>
{"_metadata": {"data_stream.dataset": "myapp"}} <2>
{"@timestamp": "2016-05-23T08:05:34.853Z", "message": "hello app"} <3>
{"_metadata": {"data_stream.dataset": "my_other_app"}} <4>
{"@timestamp": "2016-05-23T08:05:34.853Z", "message": "other app"} <5>
------------------------------------------------------------

> <1> Provides global metadata that applies to all log events in the request via a global metadata event.

Reviewer: I understand the logic but not sure if this is intuitive. Maybe instead call it `_meta_global` and `_meta_local` or similar to make it more describtive

Author: Fair point
